This lecture would be a short introduction to the one to many relationship a very common kind of relationship
that you will probably most often use.
So take a look at this diagram.
So as the name of the relationship suggests you can see that on the left we have the blog post model
which we have already created.
And on the right we have multiple command models.
And as you can see a blog post can have many comments but one comment can only be assigned to one individual
blog post.
So actually in the one to many relationship the blog post could have one related comment.
It could have zero related comments or as many as 10 20 or basically limitless amount of comments related.
Now let's see how the database design would look like for this.
So this is our existing blog post model.
It won't change.
We won't have to add anything else to it.
But this new comment model that will create it contains that idea the usual timestamps the content that
will hold the common text but also it has the blog post idea.
And this column will hold the idea of the related blog post so also the reason why we have put the blog
post idea inside the comment not the other way around should be pretty obvious since we can have many
comment models and they all have to belong to a particular blog post.
We wouldn't be able to put so many columns into the blog posts so that's why we always have to put that
to the related model.
Now just let's go ahead and create our new comment model.
So as usual we will generate it using artisans.
So we write BGP artisan make model comment.
So that's the name of the model and we are the migration suffix because we want to generate migration.
Migration for our comment model.
So we already have the boiler plate with the IDA end times times and also the down function which will
allow us to roll back this.
Now let's add our content columns so it will be taxed.
So we expect something more than 255 characters.
That's why we've put text which would allow us for a longer text to be stored inside the comment content.
And now we'll create foreign key.
This would be blog post idea
but first we have to add a column so first we had to use unsigned integer blog post I.D. We can also
make it an index
so it may improve the performance because it would be joined quite often probably with the blog post
so we might just add an index on it.
And now let's go back to our foreign key.
So it is referencing Ida on the blog posts table OK.
So migration looks good.
Now let's run it using peach P artisan migrate and see how it looks inside the database.
So we have our comments table and I.D. the timestamps content which is type text and blog post I.D.
OK so now let's actually define those relations on their models.
So first let's go to the blog post and create public function comments.
So this would be in relation to the comments and we'll return this
has many.
So last time we used has one this time we'll use has many and it relates to the comment Model K.
Let's say the changes.
And now on the comments table we will create the opposite side of this relation.
So it will be a blog post and it should return.
This belongs to end up blog post.
Now the name of this relation method is not a random.
It is blog post because this is the way Lavell will look for the foreign key on the related model by
default.
So it will convert the method name to the snake snake case.
So it will be something like this and it will suffix it with I.D..
So this is what it will look for.
If the method name of the relation is blog post I.D..
And as you might remember it happens to be exactly the name we have given in our migration.
So if I will change this name to post then Lara all by default will look for post I.D..
So let's keep it blog post.
And now another thing if you would like to use another name for the foreign key there is a second parameter
you can use and you can use post I.D..
So this would be for example in case where when your Frankie would be post I.D. inside the comments
table.
Also if the primary key of the block post model actually it is I.D. but if it would be different which
can also be configured.
And I will show you this later.
There is a third parameter where you can specify something else.
Let's say that the blog post primary key is not I.D..
This blog post I.D. for some reason you can also specified on the relation in the first parameter but
since it is I.D. we can use the defaults and we do not need this options just so you know it is possible
to also configure it.
So let's store it for later and just use the defaults and comments that out OK.
Now we can save the genders and basically we have the relations defined and in the next lectures I will
show you the basics of both storing the relations on both sides adding comments to the blog post and
assigning a blog post to a comment and then also how you can easily read the related models both the
comments from blog posts and the opposite.